README.md, before:

# Poof Cash 

Poof Cash is a non-custodial Celo and ERC20 privacy solution based on zkSNARKs. It improves transaction privacy by breaking the on-chain link between the recipient and destination addresses. It uses a smart contract that accepts ERC20 deposits that can be withdrawn by a different address. Whenever ERC20 is withdrawn by the new address, there is no way to link the withdrawal to the deposit, ensuring complete privacy.

To make a deposit user generates a secret and sends its hash (called a commitment) along with the deposit amount to the Poof smart contract. The contract accepts the deposit and adds the commitment to its list of deposits.

Later, the user decides to make a withdrawal. To do that, the user should provide a proof that he or she possesses a secret to an unspent commitment from the smart contract’s list of deposits. zkSnark technology allows that to happen without revealing which exact deposit corresponds to this secret. The smart contract will check the proof, and transfer deposited funds to the address specified for withdrawal. An external observer will be unable to determine which deposit this withdrawal came from.

You can read more about it in [this medium article](https://medium.com/@tornado.cash/introducing-private-transactions-on-ethereum-now-42ee915babe0)

## Specs

- Deposit gas cost: 1088354 (43381 + 50859 \* tree_depth)
- Withdraw gas cost: 301233
- Circuit Constraints = 28271 (1869 + 1325 \* tree_depth)
- Circuit Proof time = 10213ms (1071 + 347 \* tree_depth)
- Serverless

![image](docs/diagram.png)

## Whitepaper

**[TornadoCash_whitepaper_v1.4.pdf](https://tornado.cash/audits/TornadoCash_whitepaper_v1.4.pdf)**

## Was it audited?

Poof.cash has not yet been audited. Please use Poof.cash at your own risk.

## Requirements

1. `node v11.15.0`
2. `npm install -g npx`

## Usage

You can see example usage in cli.js, it works both in the console and in the browser.

1. `npm install`
1. `cp .env.example .env`
1. `npm run build` - this may take 10 minutes or more
1. `npx ganache-cli`
1. `npm run test` - optionally runs tests. It may fail on the first try, just run it again.

Use browser version on Alfajores:

1. `vi .env` - add your Alfajores private key to deploy contracts
1. `npm run migrate`
1. `npx http-server` - serve current dir, you can use any other static http server
1. Open `localhost:8080`

Use the command-line version. Works for Alfajores and Mainnet:

### Initialization

1. `cp .env.example .env`
1. `npm run download`
1. `npm run build:contract`

### Ganache

1. make sure you complete steps from Initialization
1. `ganache-cli -i 1337`
1. `npm run migrate:dev`
1. `./cli.js test`
1. `./cli.js --help`

### Alfajores, Mainnet

1. Please use https://github.com/tornadocash/tornado-cli
   Reason: because tornado-core uses websnark `2041cfa5fa0b71cd5cca9022a4eeea4afe28c9f7` commit hash in order to work with local trusted setup. Tornado-cli uses `4c0af6a8b65aabea3c09f377f63c44e7a58afa6d` commit with production trusted setup of tornadoCash

Example:

```bash
./cli.js deposit CELO 0.1 --rpc https://kovan.infura.io/v3/27a9649f826b4e31a83e07ae09a87448
```

> Your note: tornado-celo-0.1-42-0xf73dd6833ccbcc046c44228c8e2aa312bf49e08389dadc7c65e6a73239867b7ef49c705c4db227e2fadd8489a494b6880bdcb6016047e019d1abec1c7652
> Tornado CELO balance is 8.9
> Sender account CELO balance is 1004873.470619891361352542
> Submitting deposit transaction
> Tornado CELO balance is 9
> Sender account CELO balance is 1004873.361652048361352542

```bash
./cli.js withdraw tornado-celo-0.1-42-0xf73dd6833ccbcc046c44228c8e2aa312bf49e08389dadc7c65e6a73239867b7ef49c705c4db227e2fadd8489a494b6880bdcb6016047e019d1abec1c7652 0x8589427373D6D84E98730D7795D8f6f8731FDA16 --rpc https://kovan.infura.io/v3/27a9649f826b4e31a83e07ae09a87448 --relayer https://kovan-frelay.duckdns.org
```

> Relay address: 0x6A31736e7490AbE5D5676be059DFf064AB4aC754
> Getting current state from tornado contract
> Generating SNARK proof
> Proof time: 9117.051ms
> Sending withdraw transaction through the relay
> Transaction submitted through the relay. View transaction on etherscan https://kovan.etherscan.io/tx/0xcb21ae8cad723818c6bc7273e83e00c8393fcdbe74802ce5d562acad691a2a7b
> Transaction mined in block 17036120
> Done

## Deploy ERC20 Tornado Cash

1. `cp .env.example .env`
1. Tune all necessary params
1. `npx truffle migrate --network kovan --reset --f 2 --to 3`
1. `npx truffle migrate --network kovan --reset --f 4`

**Note**. If you want to reuse the same verifier for all the instances, then after you deployed one of the instances you should only run the 5th migration (`--f 5`).

## How to resolve ENS name to DNS name for a relayer
NOTE: Not yet relevant for CELO
1. Visit https://etherscan.io/enslookup and put relayer ENS name to the form.
2. Copy the namehash (1) and click on the `Resolver` link (2)
   ![enslookup](docs/enslookup.png)
3. Go to the `Contract` tab. Click on `Read Contract` and scroll down to the `5. text` method.
4. Put the values:
   ![resolver](docs/resolver.png)
5. Click `Query` and you will get the DNS name. Just add `https://` to it and use it as `relayer url`

## Minimal demo example

1. `npm i`
1. `ganache-cli -d`
1. `npm run download`
1. `npm run build:contract`
1. `cp .env.example .env`
1. `npm run migrate:dev`
1. `node minimal-demo.js`

## Emulate MPC trusted setup ceremony

```bash
cargo install zkutil
npx circom circuits/withdraw.circom -o build/circuits/withdraw.json
zkutil setup -c build/circuits/withdraw.json -p build/circuits/withdraw.params
zkutil export-keys -c build/circuits/withdraw.json -p build/circuits/withdraw.params -r build/circuits/withdraw_proving_key.json -v build/circuits/withdraw_verification_key.json
zkutil generate-verifier -p build/circuits/withdraw.params -v build/circuits/Verifier.sol
sed -i -e 's/pragma solidity \^0.6.0/pragma solidity 0.5.17/g' ./build/circuits/Verifier.sol
```

Commit message:

Define clearly how to deploy the contracts
 - Use `Deploy ERC20 Poof Cash` part of README to deploy the contracts
 - Remove build/ and contracts/ since they are generated
 - Rely on the existing trusted prover / verifier keys from Tornado trusted setup
 - Automatically change owner to zero address after deploying the ERC20Tornado contract

README.md, after:

# Poof Cash 

Poof Cash is a non-custodial Celo and ERC20 privacy solution based on zkSNARKs. It improves transaction privacy by breaking the on-chain link between the recipient and destination addresses. It uses a smart contract that accepts ERC20 deposits that can be withdrawn by a different address. Whenever ERC20 is withdrawn by the new address, there is no way to link the withdrawal to the deposit, ensuring complete privacy.

To make a deposit user generates a secret and sends its hash (called a commitment) along with the deposit amount to the Poof smart contract. The contract accepts the deposit and adds the commitment to its list of deposits.

Later, the user decides to make a withdrawal. To do that, the user should provide a proof that he or she possesses a secret to an unspent commitment from the smart contract’s list of deposits. zkSnark technology allows that to happen without revealing which exact deposit corresponds to this secret. The smart contract will check the proof, and transfer deposited funds to the address specified for withdrawal. An external observer will be unable to determine which deposit this withdrawal came from.

You can read more about it in [this medium article](https://medium.com/@tornado.cash/introducing-private-transactions-on-ethereum-now-42ee915babe0)

## Specs

- Deposit gas cost: 1088354 (43381 + 50859 \* tree_depth)
- Withdraw gas cost: 301233
- Circuit Constraints = 28271 (1869 + 1325 \* tree_depth)
- Circuit Proof time = 10213ms (1071 + 347 \* tree_depth)
- Serverless

![image](docs/diagram.png)

## Whitepaper

**[TornadoCash_whitepaper_v1.4.pdf](https://tornado.cash/audits/TornadoCash_whitepaper_v1.4.pdf)**

## Was it audited?

Poof.cash has not yet been audited. Please use Poof.cash at your own risk.

## Requirements

1. `node v11.15.0`
2. `npm install -g npx`

## Usage

You can see example usage in cli.js, it works both in the console and in the browser.

1. `npm install`
1. `cp .env.example .env`
1. `npm run build` - this may take 10 minutes or more
1. `npx ganache-cli`
1. `npm run test` - optionally runs tests. It may fail on the first try, just run it again.

Use browser version on Alfajores:

1. `vi .env` - add your Alfajores private key to deploy contracts
1. `npm run migrate`
1. `npx http-server` - serve current dir, you can use any other static http server
1. Open `localhost:8080`

Use the command-line version. Works for Alfajores and Mainnet:

### Initialization

1. `cp .env.example .env`
1. `npm run download`
1. `npm run build:contract`

### Ganache

1. make sure you complete steps from Initialization
1. `ganache-cli -i 1337`
1. `npm run migrate:dev`
1. `./cli.js test`
1. `./cli.js --help`

### Alfajores, Mainnet

1. Please use https://github.com/tornadocash/tornado-cli
   Reason: because tornado-core uses websnark `2041cfa5fa0b71cd5cca9022a4eeea4afe28c9f7` commit hash in order to work with local trusted setup. Tornado-cli uses `4c0af6a8b65aabea3c09f377f63c44e7a58afa6d` commit with production trusted setup of tornadoCash

Example:

```bash
./cli.js deposit CELO 0.1 --rpc https://kovan.infura.io/v3/27a9649f826b4e31a83e07ae09a87448
```

> Your note: tornado-celo-0.1-42-0xf73dd6833ccbcc046c44228c8e2aa312bf49e08389dadc7c65e6a73239867b7ef49c705c4db227e2fadd8489a494b6880bdcb6016047e019d1abec1c7652
> Tornado CELO balance is 8.9
> Sender account CELO balance is 1004873.470619891361352542
> Submitting deposit transaction
> Tornado CELO balance is 9
> Sender account CELO balance is 1004873.361652048361352542

```bash
./cli.js withdraw tornado-celo-0.1-42-0xf73dd6833ccbcc046c44228c8e2aa312bf49e08389dadc7c65e6a73239867b7ef49c705c4db227e2fadd8489a494b6880bdcb6016047e019d1abec1c7652 0x8589427373D6D84E98730D7795D8f6f8731FDA16 --rpc https://kovan.infura.io/v3/27a9649f826b4e31a83e07ae09a87448 --relayer https://kovan-frelay.duckdns.org
```

> Relay address: 0x6A31736e7490AbE5D5676be059DFf064AB4aC754
> Getting current state from tornado contract
> Generating SNARK proof
> Proof time: 9117.051ms
> Sending withdraw transaction through the relay
> Transaction submitted through the relay. View transaction on etherscan https://kovan.etherscan.io/tx/0xcb21ae8cad723818c6bc7273e83e00c8393fcdbe74802ce5d562acad691a2a7b
> Transaction mined in block 17036120
> Done

## Deploy ERC20 Poof Cash

1. `npm i`
1. `npm run download`
1. `npm run build:contract`
1. `cp .env.example .env`
1. Tune all necessary params
1. `npx truffle migrate --network alfajores --reset --f 2 --to 4`
1. `npx truffle migrate --network alfajores --reset --f 5`

**Note**. If you want to reuse the same verifier for all the instances, then after you deployed one of the instances you should only run the 5th migration (`--f 5`). Likely, you will want to tune your .env parameters for each run of the 5th migration.

## How to resolve ENS name to DNS name for a relayer
NOTE: Not yet relevant for CELO
1. Visit https://etherscan.io/enslookup and put relayer ENS name to the form.
2. Copy the namehash (1) and click on the `Resolver` link (2)
   ![enslookup](docs/enslookup.png)
3. Go to the `Contract` tab. Click on `Read Contract` and scroll down to the `5. text` method.
4. Put the values:
   ![resolver](docs/resolver.png)
5. Click `Query` and you will get the DNS name. Just add `https://` to it and use it as `relayer url`

## Minimal demo example

1. `npm i`
1. `ganache-cli -d`
1. `npm run download`
1. `npm run build:contract`
1. `cp .env.example .env`
1. `npm run migrate:dev`
1. `node minimal-demo.js`

## Emulate MPC trusted setup ceremony

```bash
cargo install zkutil
npx circom circuits/withdraw.circom -o build/circuits/withdraw.json
zkutil setup -c build/circuits/withdraw.json -p build/circuits/withdraw.params
zkutil export-keys -c build/circuits/withdraw.json -p build/circuits/withdraw.params -r build/circuits/withdraw_proving_key.json -v build/circuits/withdraw_verification_key.json
zkutil generate-verifier -p build/circuits/withdraw.params -v build/circuits/Verifier.sol
sed -i -e 's/pragma solidity \^0.6.0/pragma solidity 0.5.17/g' ./build/circuits/Verifier.sol
```
